feat(rdb): verify-ca and verify-full MTA-2878 (#1494)
scaleway/docs-content: managed-databases/postgresql-and-mysql/api-cli/verify-ca-postgresql.mdx

---
meta:
  title: Verifying Servers' Certificate Authority on PostgreSQL
  description: This page explains how to verify a server's certificate authority on Managed Database for PostgreSQL.
content:
  h1: Verifying Servers' Certificate Authority on PostgreSQL
  paragraph: This page explains how to verify a server's certificate authority on Managed Database for PostgreSQL.
tags: verify-ca verify certificate authority postgresql
dates:
  validation: 2023-04-01
  posted: 2023-04-01
categories:
  - managed-databases
---

The creation and management of TLS certificates is included in the Managed Database for PostgreSQL offers.

A TLS certificate is generated automatically for your Database Instance upon its creation.

> You can renew your certificates at any time. This allows you to renew your certificates whenever you add a new endpoint, for example.

Reviewer: maybe combine these two sentences? for ex: "You can renew your certificates at any time, when you add a new endpoint, for example." or something like that

> You can renew your certificates at any time. This allows you to renew your certificates whenever you add a new endpoint, for example.

Author: ```suggestion
You can renew your certificates at any time, when you add a new endpoint, for example.
```

PostgreSQL natively supports SSL connections that enhance the security of client/server communications with TLS protocols. PostgreSQL does not, however, verify server certificates by default.

> In this page we show you two types protection modes you can use to verify if the servers connecting to your client are properly encrypted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this page we show you two types of protection modes you can use to verify if the servers connecting to your client are properly encrypted.
```

We also show you how to run the verification using different languages, such as `psql`, `python`, `go`, and `js`.

<Message type="note">

>   The hostnames of Scaleway Database Instances take on the following format: `rw-${instance_id}.rdb.${region}.scw.cloud`.

Reviewer 2: For now remove this note as we don't support this feature publicly

</Message>

## Using verify-ca

Will verify that a server is trustworthy by checking the certificate chain up to the root certificate stored on the client.

### With psql

```sql

> PGSSLROOTCERT=<SSL_CERTIFICATE> psql "host=<IP or HOSTNAME> port=<PORT> user=<USERNAME> sslmode=verify-ca dbname=<DB_NAME>"

Reviewer 2: Just use IP for host in all these type of command

    "password=%s dbname=%s sslmode=%s sslrootcert=%s" ,
    host, port, user, password, dbname, sslmode, sslrootcert)
  db, err := sql.Open("postgres", psqlInfo)
  if err != nil {
    panic(err)
  }
  defer db.Close()

  err = db.Ping()
  if err != nil {
    panic(err)
  }

  fmt.Println("Successfully connected!")
}
```

### With JS

```js
import fs from 'fs'

const config = {
    user: <USERNAME>,
    password: <PASSWORD>,
    database: <DB_NAME>,
    port: <PORT>,
    host: <IP or HOSTNAME>,
    ssl: {
        rejectUnauthorized: false,
        cert: fs.readFileSync(<PATH_TO_SSL_CERTIFICATE>).toString(),
        mode: 'verify-ca'
    },
}
import pkg from 'pg';
const { Client, Pool } = pkg;

const client = new Client(config)
client.connect(err => {
    if (err) {
        console.error('error connecting', err.stack)
    } else {
        console.log('connected')
        client.end()
    }
})

const pool = new Pool(config)
pool
    .connect()
    .then(client => {
        console.log('connected')
        client.release()
    })
    .catch(err => console.error('error connecting', err.stack))
    .then(() => pool.end())
```

## Using verify-full

> Will verify that a server is trustworthy by checking the certificate chain up to the root certificate stored on the client and if the hostname specified in the server certificate matches the hostname of the server.

Reviewer 2: Add a note here: verify-full is supported/works only for certificate created or renew after 1st February 2023. verify-full option doesn't work for certificate created before this date. Customers can renew the cert to use this option on their client.

---
meta:
  title: Verifying Servers' Certificate Authority on PostgreSQL
  description: This page explains how to verify a server's certificate authority on Managed Database for PostgreSQL.
content:
  h1: Verifying Servers' Certificate Authority on PostgreSQL
  paragraph: This page explains how to verify a server's certificate authority on Managed Database for PostgreSQL.
tags: verify-ca verify certificate authority postgresql
dates:
  validation: 2023-04-01
  posted: 2023-04-01
categories:
  - managed-databases
---

The creation and management of TLS certificates is included in the Managed Database for PostgreSQL offers.

A TLS certificate is generated automatically for your Database Instance upon its creation.

You can renew your certificates at any time, when you add a new endpoint, for example.

PostgreSQL natively supports SSL connections that enhance the security of client/server communications with TLS protocols. PostgreSQL does not, however, verify server certificates by default.

> In this page we show you two types of protection modes you can use to verify if the servers connecting to your client are properly encrypted.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this page we show you two types of protection modes you can use to verify if the servers connecting to your client are properly encrypted.
```
In this page, we show you two types of protection modes you can use to verify whether the servers connecting to your client are properly encrypted.

We also show you how to run the verification using different languages, such as `psql`, `python`, `go`, and `js`.

## Using verify-ca

> Will verify that a server is trustworthy by checking the certificate chain up to the root certificate stored on the client.

Reviewer 3: I think it could be good if the sentence starts with a subject. Could "verify-ca" be considered an option ? "This option will..."

Author: ```suggestion
This option will verify that a server is trustworthy by checking the certificate chain up to the root certificate stored on the client.
```

    "password=%s dbname=%s sslmode=%s sslrootcert=%s" ,
    host, port, user, password, dbname, sslmode, sslrootcert)
  db, err := sql.Open("postgres", psqlInfo)
  if err != nil {
    panic(err)
  }
  defer db.Close()

  err = db.Ping()
  if err != nil {
    panic(err)
  }

  fmt.Println("Successfully connected!")
}
```

### With JS

```js
import fs from 'fs'

const config = {
    user: <USERNAME>,
    password: <PASSWORD>,
    database: <DB_NAME>,
    port: <PORT>,
    host: <IP or HOSTNAME>,
    ssl: {
        rejectUnauthorized: false,
        cert: fs.readFileSync(<PATH_TO_SSL_CERTIFICATE>).toString(),
        mode: 'verify-ca'
    },
}
import pkg from 'pg';
const { Client, Pool } = pkg;

const client = new Client(config)
client.connect(err => {
    if (err) {
        console.error('error connecting', err.stack)
    } else {
        console.log('connected')
        client.end()
    }
})

const pool = new Pool(config)
pool
    .connect()
    .then(client => {
        console.log('connected')
        client.release()
    })
    .catch(err => console.error('error connecting', err.stack))
    .then(() => pool.end())
```

## Using verify-full

> Will verify that a server is trustworthy by checking the certificate chain up to the root certificate stored on the client and if the hostname specified in the server certificate matches the hostname of the server.

Reviewer 3: same here + break the sentence into two 

```suggestion
This option will verify that a server is trustworthy by checking the certificate chain up to the root certificate stored on the client. It will also verify whether the hostname specified in the server certificate matches the hostname of the server.
```
